hi this is Brian shizer from trellis at
the Heathman hotel in Kirkland
Washington and we're here to show you
how to make a juicy hamburger out of
lean ground beef we're going to start
off today with ground sirloin and this
is a special grind and in order to have
a juicy hamburger we want a certain fat
content so we're looking for about eight
to ten percent fat and that means we're
going about 90 to 92 percent lean now
we've asked our butcher to grind this
for us so it's already pre ground and
what I'm going to do is I'm going to add
into this a little bit of sautéed red
onion a little bit of sauteed celery and
some fresh herbs and that is going to
help us create a nice juicy burger I
want to put a touch of pepper not too
much salt just a little bit of salt now
the celery and the onion been pre
sauteed a little bit what they're going
to do is when we cook our burger slowly
they're going to bring some juice and
they're also going to help keep it nice
and lean so I'm going to put a pair of
gloves on one of the most important
things when making burgers are handling
ground meat is that you want to have
your work surface clean and sanitized
make sure that your cutting board
running through the dishwasher all your
tencel's are nice and clean and I'll
show you a little trick when we form it
just a ziploc bag or a little piece of
plastic works great for keeping all
those things off your counter so I'm
going to mix our celery and our onion in
with our ground beef so I'm making we
want to mix this really well we're going
to form this into four patties
and we're going to make sure everything
is mixed in nice if you want all your
patties to be the same little trick is
to have a scale you can set your scale
for the ounces that you want a six ounce
burger seven ounce burger eight ounce
burger and then for forming our burgers
so they're all the same we use a ring
and this actually this ring makes a
perfect six ounce burger and I'm just
going to set that on top of our plastic
wrap put my ground beef in the center
just put a touch more on top there we
want to fill it right to the top take
and turn that over put our burger out
this is an 8 ounce burgers this is a
pretty hefty burger
it is delicious when grilled and makes a
great sandwich for two another little
trick we can do here so we want to make
a couple of small burgers for the kids
just take a little bit
make a couple little tiny burgers here
now remember when you're getting ready
to cook your burgers you then again
wanna season them with a little salt and
I like to season high up that way there
it's evenly distributed over the top of
the burgers so we don't have a lot of
salt in one spot put a little bit of
pepper and this is how to make a juicy
hamburger with lean ground beef again
this is brian from trellis at the
Heathman hotel in Kirkland
you